##Ada Developer Program

###Short Essay Questions

<div style = color:black;>
	Applicant Name: Stella Lee
</div>
<br>
<strong> Question 1 </strong><div style="font-family: Helvetica; color: #34282C; font-size: 13px;">
					The first time I was exposed to programming was during my summer quarter as a sophomore at the University of Washington. CSE 142 (Introduction to Java) was an infamous class in my college. Computer Science majors were expected to 4.0 this class as well as the subsequent CSE 143 in order to get into the major. In parallel, I have heard from my peers that it was a very fun yet challenging course. It was never my intention to become a computer science major – I just wanted to know what the fun and excitement was about! And so I signed up for the summer class on a whim, not realizing it was 13 weeks of material crammed into 10; a class that consisted of already-coders who wanted to whiz through the class for a chance to get early acceptance into the major. Even through all the foreign terminology and strange logic quizzes, I’m surprised that I even got to week 7 before I submitted the form for class withdrawal. Variables, iterations, and functions were somewhat manageable. Classes, objects, and methods were not. I was disheartened and defeated and I vowed to never program a line of code again as long as I lived. Since then, I graduated with a materials science and engineering degree, one of the two engineering majors and didn’t require any programming for graduation.<br>
<br>	Approximately 3 years and 4 months after my disappointing programming stint, I stumbled upon CodeAcademy.com. I must have been strangely optimistic that day as not only has it helped me get over my fear of programming, but I also haven't stopped. Since January 2016, I have been completing the online courses at my own pace. I proudly finished the Javascript course (including objects!) and reiterated my understanding by completing the Python course. I even completed 60% of the HTML/CSS course in two days to make my Markdown resume! These courses have helped me understand concepts but now I want to be fluent enough to solve real-world problems. I am hoping that the Ada Developers Program will help me enter the software industry and help me attain skills to acheive my goals.
</div>
<br><strong> Question 2 </strong><div style="font-family: Helvetica; color: #34282C; font-size: 13px;">	In 5 years I aspire to be a product manager for a device that combines my previous “hardware” knowledge with my “software” skills. The era of the Internet- of-Things is here and I foresee most devices are going to be connected to the network. I am realizing that real-time data being collected into a cloud can be beneficial and it will change our lives. All cars will soon be tracked in real-time, health products will give real-time feedback, and better decisions can be made in both industry and in our everyday lives based on the data that has been collected and analyzed. Currently, I find this revolution fascinating and beat myself up everyday for not giving programming a chance when I was younger. Regarding my background, I do not plan on discarding my engineering career any time soon. Learning how to program will only enhance my engineering ability and I hope to call myself an "engineer" for the entirety of my career. I want to learn  how to program so it will enable me to solve more bigger and relebant problems with better solutions.	</div>
<br>
<strong> Question 3 </strong>

<div style="font-family: Helvetica; color: #34282C; font-size: 13px;">	Ever since I was in fourth grade, I always wanted to be a scientist or an engineer. What I didn’t realize at the time was that pursuing a STEM career as a female was not popular. The female ratio in my freshman chemistry class was about 50%, then my introduction to engineering class was about 40%. The female to male ratio in my engineering major dropped to 20%, I was the only female in my 8 person internship team which makes it 13%, and now I am one of two female engineers in the Fluke Calibration Operations team of 13 making it 15%. My point is that the female to male ratio in my classrooms and work environment has dramatically dropped ever since I passed my college chemistry course and I can't seem to find a solid explanation for it. Therefore, it is super exciting that the Ada program consists of 100% women. I realized that I have never been on a problem-solving team with just women in my entire education and career. It is exciting to think about what kind of problems an all-women team will tackle and what approach they may take. Programs like Ada is very inspirational and is absolutely the step in the right direction. I hope that one day my children will be taking STEM courses with a more balanced male-to-female ratio. With that being said, I fully believe in Ada’s mission and am also interested in learning how to make science and math careers more inclusive to create more diversity. I believe that with enough awareness and support from the STEM community, programming and engineering education can be accessible to everyone regardless of gender, sexual orientation, race, age, and other non-traditional factors. 
</div>
<br>
<strong> Question 4 </strong>
<div style="font-family: Helvetica; color: #34282C; font-size: 13px;">	Looking back to my summer CSE 142 in college, I made a lot of mistakes that hindered my progression in programming. First, I was truly afraid of asking for help. Being in a quiz section where everyone already had coding experience was intimidating. My classmates were blazing through exercises while I sat dumbfounded. Raising my hand for an explanation was embarrassing. I had too much pride to admit that I didn’t know what was going on. This carried on for about 7 weeks until I was convinced everyone was speaking an alien language. If I have another opportunity to take a programming class, I would get over my fear of failing. With each Code Academy exercise, I’m learning that having a bug in your code is inevitable and finding the bug and fixing it is a necessary process to learn and understand your mistakes. Also, because programming functions build on each other, it is important to master each concept sequentially in order to fully understand the language. With these lessons learned, I am hoping to learn programming through a different perspective than from my failed programming stint during my sophomore year in college.
</div>